delay. This is the Japanese revision. Let me tell
you about Brunette Thorson's film collection.
Okay. Now, here's what I'm interested in, really,
is that there has been, as a matter of fact, over the
last five or six years, almost, well, really since
1957, since the IGY, has been an increased
exchange of Soviet and American scientists upon
international cruises. Cooperation in Moho, for
example, and in working plate tectonics. Why your
committee? Why now? Did that lead to an evolution
of international cooperation so they thought
that a group like you could ensure continued
cooperation?
Well, no, I don't think it was to ensure it. I think
it was to expand it. A lot of the cooperation that
you have mentioned has been limited to high seas,
oceanographic vessel effort. There has not been
much involvement at shore facilities. The
occasional, yeah, but not as much. For example, I
visited the Soviet Union as a guest of their
academy in the fall of 74, going around the long
way, taking a cruise ship of the Soviet Union from
Yokohama.
Okay, so I came into Nohodka, which is close to
Vladivostok, but I'm not permitted to visit
Vladivostok. I was the first U.S. scientist ever
to visit that area, and as luck would have it, since
it was the summer, there were perhaps 300 marine
biology, oceanography people from all over the
Soviet Union working at that laboratory.
it was a fabulous opportunity to talk with people
that you had never met maybe never will meet again
but it developed for me a list of names and
addresses with whom i can correspond some of whom i
will undoubtedly see again but here is a
tremendous block of the soviet scientific
community that have never even seen a u.s
scientist before and the same i think could be said
for a sizable
scientific community. Now, how were you tapped
for this kind of committee assignment? Why did
they pick you? Okay, I think it's pretty cut and
dry. In 66, in part because of the earlier
involvement, I had an opportunity to participate
in the second international oceanographic
congress, Moscow. I went, spent about a month in
the Soviet Union, a portion of which was at the
meetings in Moscow, and a portion was at the
post-Congress tour of facilities on the Black
Sea, Sevastopol, Sochi, Yalta. That gave me
contact with Soviet scientists, and for the ten
years that followed, I maintained these contacts
through correspondence, exchange of scientific
publications. In 72, at a meeting in Helgeland,
which is Germany, another very, very influential
gentleman in the realm of marine biology, not
oceanography, Otto Kinnett, had invited three
Soviet scientists as guests of the German
Republic. Two of them were people that I had met at
the 66th Oceanographic Congress. In the six or
seven years that we had not seen each other, one of
them had been kicked way upstairs as a member of the
Soviet Academy of Sciences, a director of the new
Far Eastern Institute of Marine Biology,
Vladivostok. We spent some number of evenings
catching each other up. And it was from that that I
received the invitation to go there as their
guest. And I assume that when this was known, And
they were looking for US people to serve on these
committees. My name just happened to come out of
the computer. So all these things are so
interrelated that sometimes it really defies the
imagination.
Do you anticipate, we were, actually you were
spelling out goals, which your committee had in
mind. And we don't, you had really only talked of
one goal. Now,
you're going to create subcommittees then. When
do you anticipate subcommittees' reports with
goals for a national corporation? One of the
programs in that general biological
productivity and biochemistry of the world's
oceans is a section on the ecology of fouling
communities, with which I am personally
involved.
The first of the workshops was scheduled for
Beaufort, November 75. In spite of rather
horrendous difficulties, which are the sort of
thing that would make a good short story, a group of
Soviet scientists came here. We had the workshop
with about 22 US scientists. We, in addition to
presenting, review papers from both sides to
familiarize the other side with what's going on in
the realm of the ecology of filing communities.
There was a lot of after dinner discussions,
individual chats, presentation of short
scientific papers, and more importantly, a lot of
talk about where should we go from here. One of the
places that we are going from there is to Leningrad
in late November 76 for a return workshop, which
will do the reverse in the sense that it will take
eight U.S. scientists to meet with about 30 Soviet
scientists. In the year that they've had since the
Beaufort meeting, they are encouraged to
communicate with their Soviet counterparts
begin to think on their own as to individual
research and cooperative research projects that
they feel should be attempted. The proceedings of
that 75 workshop are to be published in the next six
weeks by the Navy Printing Office in both
languages. And as the first volume resulting from
this whole program it will be widely distributed
through the soviet union and the united states
hopefully generating interest thoughts on
research that some soviet might wish to do in this
country and some u.s might wish to do in the soviet
union at the November Leningrad meeting we will be
more specific about okay now who is available from
the scientific community to go to the Soviet Union
during the summer months of 1977 and develop some
sort of a cooperative research program either
with a group from Leningrad or Moscow or
Vladivostok and get the whole thing geared up so
that it isn't one of these nebulous paper things
but a whole series of reasonably well-organized
individual efforts rather than a monstrous
program. The language handicap, how great is it?
It's serious, but less serious at the scientific
level than at the political level. And you see this
in discussions with the Soviets all the time. When
the group came here in May for their working party
meeting, they brought with them their own
interpreter. We provided an interpreter also. In
casual conversations about science, nobody
seems to worry too much about whether I say
mollusks or molluscans. But when it comes to
formulating the protocol, then there was
frequently a 15-minute discussion between their
interpreter and our interpreter as to the nuances
of the words that should be used, because it comes
out as a Soviet version plus a US version, which
must agree. But many of the Russians speak English
far better than we speak Russian. It's standard
procedure, I guess, through the academy that when
you go there, you are provided with an
interpreter. And it will take a long time before
it's as comfortable as it is with, say, the people
in the German scientific community. But it's
moving in that direction. And the area that
bothers me most is that there is a tremendous
backlog of scientific literature in Russian that
most US scientists have never seen and cannot
read, even if they know it exists. Do you read and
speak Russian? No. But at some point, we're going
to have to tackle the problem of translating the
significant works that can't do it all. And the big
trick is to decide what's significant. and then
proceed to translate it and print it and
disseminate
it. They do this all the time on a laboratory base,
but we don't. Now, you were involved with the EPA in
1975, too, on an Environmental Protection Agency
conference on estuaries. Was this also in
connection with your work in international
cooperation? Would this overlap? Oh yeah,
there's a lot of overlap.
I don't know why I was selected to participate in
that, but possibly because I have been involved in
estuarine
research for 25 years, so that I know a lot of the
people who are
concerned about environmental and estuarine
pollution. And I guess I've published a lot on it,
so it would be natural. Now, are you able to bring in
your experience at international conferences
and your discussion with your contemporaries and
colleagues here? Oh, very definitely. And
encourage them to the extent that they are so
inclined to take advantage of the contacts that I
have. And that's one of the reasons that I push much
the amusement of some of my colleagues to bring to
this laboratory scientists from all over the
world either individually when they're coming
through the United States or as a group like this
Soviet working party meeting that's why I wanted
it here so that they could chat with the members of
the staff here and begin to develop whatever
interests that they may have I have two or three
technical questions and I want to turn back to
cooperation, really. But what forms of life are
first hit the hardest by shoreline pollution?
Well, presumably the sessile form. Any of the
shelf, well, not any of the shelf, the shrimps can
move around, but the clams, the oysters, they
can't get away from it. So they close up for a while,
and if they can't stay closed up beyond a certain
point, that's it. Now,
the average American probably identifies
Jacques Cousteau as the prominent oceanographer
in the world. And this is the media's message. Now,
in dealing as a scientist, and this is a very
involved question I have here, but as a scientist
dealing with pollution on shore, obviously
shellfish are the first one to take the blows of
pollutants. Do you feel yourself pressured
between those people who identify with many of
Cousteau's rash statements on one side and with
private enterprise on the other, not anxious to
protect the shellfish? Well, gee, first of all, I
don't view Cousteau as a scientist. That's where
the media have distorted the message. There is no
doubt that He has done more for the realm of
oceanography in the public eye than any other man,
but as a promoter, not as a scientist. And this is
why when he comes here and makes some of his
sweeping generalities, it's hard to convince
people within the Congress, say, that he is
speaking as a promoter, not as a scientist.
Sometimes the shock value of what he has had to say
carries enough that you do see some results from
it, even though what he said originally is
debatable. And this is, of course, one of the
problems in the scientific community. We're
always arguing about the hairs of definitions of
things as apart from the overviews that Cousteau
takes. And in that sense, he undoubtedly has
contributed a great deal. But I'm not sure I know.
Pressured between private enterprise and
Cousteau, I don't see it that way at all. Well,
maybe my question was not phrased properly. I was
saying that Cousteau, as what amounts to a
naturalist promoter, tends to make these rash
statements about the Mediterranean dying or the
Red Sea will soon be gone or soon there will be no
life in the ocean is the one that sticks in my mind,
which stirs up, in particularly coastal states
like yours, a great deal of opinion among
environmentalists about what should be done. Do
you feel a great deal of pressure as a man attached
to an institution in this state like Duke
University between these environmentalists
spurred on by people like Cousteau and private
enterprise, which has not won any records in North
Carolina, by the way, for preserving the
shoreline? That's a sore point. How do you react to
that? What's your personal reaction to that? To
these two different opinions? To this sort of
pressure, this internal pressure, if there is
such, created within your state itself. Well,
without someone like Cousteau to influence the
man in the street, it would be a losing cause.
Because most scientists are not capable of
conveying to the man in the street the real
problems. They're too concerned about the
details. They're not capable of putting it into
language that people can understand. And it's
going to be up to somebody like Cousteau and Ralph
Nader to sufficiently aroused the public to
permit the government to do some of the things that
the scientific community thinks should be done.
What sort of positive steps should we take?
Well...
I think the simplest initial step would be to
enforce the laws that exist. We have a big fight
right now in this county over coastal management.
And the state in 72 passed, no in 74, passed the
Coastal Management Act, which is modeled pretty
much after the Federal Coastal Management Act of
72. And they are now in the process of getting the 20
coastal counties to organize a land use plan. This
county, which ironically enough was the only
county to support coastal management in 74, has
now filed suit against the state declaring that
the law is unconstitutional which means that in
the meantime we're going to be without any sort of
land use planning the county commissioners in
yesterday's paper indicated that they intend to
fill the void by starting a very thorough and
exacting review of the existing ordinances in
this county relative to the environment and to
their enforcement Well, if they will do this, it
may be a new day dawning, because right now there
are flagrant violations of existing county
ordinances on the use of septic tanks, for
example, the development of trailer parks, and
how many trailers can be attached to a septic tank.
And if they will really enforce this, then we'll be
a lot farther ahead. Well, the same thing can be
said, I'm pretty sure, of all coastal states. to
varying degrees. You pass a law to appease some
group and then you forget it. You don't try to
enforce it. So that would be a start. The other
thing, at a higher level, I think the EPA is finally
recognizing that you can't develop
environmental constraints on estuaries as a
whole. You've got to accept the fact that
estuaries in Alaska are different from estuaries
in Florida. And it's going to take a further
subdivision of U.S. regional problems and then
specific ordinances, laws, call them what you
will, measures to deal with those problems in
specific areas and not try to blanket Alaska and
Florida. But none of this will come about if the
public doesn't demand it, and if they don't
realize that when scientists talk about the
concern for the small fiddler crabs, they're not
really expressing a value judgment of fiddler
crabs against people. They're using the fiddler
crabs as a barometer of the way in which the
environment is going.
that the corrective measures will have to be
brought about because the public understands
that this is what it is and insists that we clean it
up. Yet somehow my view of oceanography is one
which has been deeply involved with private
enterprise and with the military as well as with
practical sciences and impractical sciences, if
I may use that word. Do you feel tensions within
your profession? based upon this kind of
cooperation?
Well, I don't know of much involvement between
private enterprise and oceanography. I was
thinking about the oil industry. Well, that's
almost exclusively geology. And geologists as a
group, and they'll shoot me for it, but frequently
geologists are not that concerned about the
environment itself. They're more interested in
the way in which it was formed, the way in which it
evolves. It's an abstract, non-living system, so
that they are not necessarily as attuned to the
problems of pollution relative to biological
systems. And I don't say that as a derogatory
statement. I'm not that familiar with the
But if you look at the realm of biological
oceanography, there's very little involvement
with private enterprise. In fact, none of my
colleagues have jobs with private enterprise.
Then, as far as you're concerned, scientists and
EPA then, or what have you, could cooperate
without any problems. Oh, yeah. Intellectually
or financially or whatever. The only place we get
in trouble are under political constraints. All
right. Now, what do you say to the Russians then,
back to where I left you, what do you say to the
Russians then when they point out the problems of
pollution you have at home? Do you ever discuss
these sorts of things? They have the same problems
at home, too. Okay. I was going to say, yeah, it
would seem the Russians would say, how can you
offer me advice? Look at what's occurring off of
Louisiana, for example.
The problems of pollution in the Soviet Union are
almost identical to the problems of pollution in
the United States. It's just a question of what you
call the group that is contributing to the
pollution. Over there, it's a collective
something or other owned by the state. Over here,
it is a private industry owned by the
stockholders. But the results are the same. And
the example that I always fall back on is Lake
Baikal. Here is one of the oldest, deepest
freshwater lakes in the world, full of all sorts of
exotic fauna left over from the millennia gone by.
And there is a very serious threat to the lake now
because of industry, state industry. and there
has been a local effort to drum up support for
cleaning up Lake Baikal and a land use plan which
will prevent any further industry from being
situated on the banks of Lake Baikal and
restrictive measures on what can be pumped in
terms of effluents into Lake Baikal. All you have
to do is substitute a certain number of titles and
administrative units and you've got the same
problem in North Carolina. You've got to put the
stuff someplace. And it doesn't matter whether
you're a communist state or a capitalist state,
you're going to have problems when you start
putting it into the natural environment. Now, you
wouldn't see a mass demonstration in the streets
of Moscow saying, down with state industries.
That's the major difference.
Do you think progress is being made? Definitely.
But that's where some perspective in terms of
history is useful, because man never progresses
as fast as some people think he should. But
locally, nationally, and internationally, you
would adjudge progress to occur? Very definite.
Well, let me say something. If you and I had been
talking 10 years ago, let's say it's now August
10th, 1967, 1966,
Much of what we have discussed in the last 10
minutes couldn't have been discussed because
there wasn't any program, really. There wasn't
any environmental protection agency. Only a few
voices in the wilderness were beginning to say, we
must do something about the environment. And the
book Silent Spring, which was written basically
right outside of this laboratory, was the first
real recognition that we were in trouble. And I
think it is really outstanding that in the last
five years we have made the inroads and alerted the
public and educated the public to the extent that
we have done.
when he, of course, as he turned out to be correct in
almost every single point. It was the most amazing
book I ever read. And when I asked him about it, he
said, well, you've got to watch these people using
scare tactics. And, of course, as you point out,
now this conversation is just considered an
important part of now international
cooperation. Now, when did you first notice the
environment becoming important on the
international level? What were the first
conferences you were involved in where this
became the focal point of discussion?
I guess it was the Rome meeting of FAO in 1970, and
there it applied exclusively to the marine
environment. I think that was the first really
formal recognition that the topic received.
There were some number of earlier national
meetings, and you could go to a meeting in another
country, say in 67 or 8, and people would be talking
about it. But you would not have found that within
the meeting there was a whole section devoted to
environmental problems.
Now, how did you come to organize a conference on
land development of marine invertebrates in
Yugoslavia? Well, you better change that title.
It's larval development. I'm sorry, lowerable
developments. Well, for several reasons.
Yugoslavia at that time had PL-480 funds. And
through my involvement with the Smithsonian, I
knew of the machinery involved with PL-480 funds.
So once I was off of the Biological Advisory
Committee, where it wouldn't have been
appropriate for me to submit a proposal on my own. I
submitted a proposal as a member of the scientific
community for such a conference because of my
connections throughout the European scientific
community. There was no real difficulty in
generating enthusiasm and finding
participants. And the same applied to the U.S.
participants who went. I had long wanted to do a
second larval conference we did one here in 67 and
here was just about everything that was required
for such a conference the facilities the interest
and the financial support
yugoslavia how would you rank yet in terms of a sign
a comparison with western science well you can't
label yugoslavia because it's a series of what
five small states or varying sized states. And the
degree of difference within these five is
astronomical.
In the northern area you have, for all practical
purposes, western science. In the southern area,
right next to Albania, the state of Montenegro,
the understanding of science is about where it was
in 1903.
And then you have various gradations in between.
The Split Institute of Oceanography, which is a
major Yugoslav oceanographic institution,
has some excellent people, some good equipment.
They don't have the support that they would like,
but that's true most places. Their interests are
far more provincial in the sense that most of their
emphasis is on either the Adriatic or
Mediterranean, but that's understandable. They
can't afford a monstrous international program,
and there's no reason why they should feel they
should.
What a country like Yugoslavia, which I think we
would consider underdeveloped in our terms,
particularly in southern Yugoslavia, are they
interested in such things as environmental
controls too? Oh, very definitely, for very
practical reasons. In a number of areas, They have
developed some fantastic tourist facilities in
response to domains on the part of the rest of
Europe. And they're on a collision course in
certain areas between industry and tourism,
heavy industry. They're having problems with
what to do with all the sewage produced by all the
tourists. So they have very good everyday
practical reasons why they need to know more about
offshore currents, the effect of pollutants on
the fauna, If they pollute the Adriatic, which
wouldn't take that much, what little fishing they
now have is down the drain. But, of course, it's a
much more complicated situation in that the
Yugoslavs don't get along too well with the
Italians. The Italians have the beach across the
hall, and the Italians have not been too concerned
about polluting.